Add changelog notes for the 23.03 release (#6455)
helix-editor/helix: CHANGELOG.md

> # 23.03 (2023-03-31)

Reviewer: @the-mikedavis I noticed every time you had to write this by looking at the logs, even though writing it from scratch will be better for the reader, but it is a lot of work, should we add an unreleased section so each new feature change needs to be written to that so you don't have to spend so much time on this?

Reviewer 2: see https://github.com/helix-editor/helix/pull/4150 for previous discussion. I think the points raised there were pretty good. I could comeup with a solution which would somewhat automate it but I guess Mikes point about that being an unnecessary effort still applies

> # 23.03 (2022-03-31)

Author: ```suggestion
# 23.03 (2023-03-31)
```

🙃

> Checkpoint: `5323020c3f02b178f2b6807f13d89bf7f40d3cce`

For the full log, check out the [git log](https://github.com/helix-editor/helix/compare/22.12..23.03).

Breaking changes:

- Select diagnostic range in `goto_*_diag` commands (#4713, #5164, #6193)
- Remove jump behavior from `increment`/`decrement` (#4123, #5929)
- Enable the Kitty keyboard protocol on terminals with support (#4939, #6170, #6194)
- Select change range in `goto_*_change` commands (#5206)
- Split file modification indicator from filename statusline elements (#4731, #6036)
- Jump to symbol ranges in LSP goto commands (#5986)

Features:

- Dynamic workspace symbol picker (#5055)
- Soft-wrap (#5420, #5786, #5893, #6440)
- Initial support for LSP snippet completions (#5864, b1f7528, #6263, bbf4800, 90348b8, f87299f, #6371)
- Add a statusline element for showing the current version control HEAD (#5682)

> - Display LSP type hints (#5934, #6312)

Reviewer 2: I don't want to claim the credit here but I think mentioning #5420 would make sense here since that PR added all the virtual text API/implementation and is therefore the main reason we have this feature at all. We usually don't mention PRs twice I believe but we could make an exception for that PR since it was so large

Commands:

- `:pipe-to` which pipes selections into a shell command and ignores output (#4931)
- `merge_consecutive_selections` (`A-_`) combines all consecutive selections (#5047)
- `rotate_view_reverse` which focuses the previous view (#5356)
- `goto_declaration` (`gD`, requires LSP) which jumps to a symbol's declaration (#5646)
- `file_picker_in_current_buffer_directory` (#4666)
- `:character-info` which shows information about the character under the cursor (#4000)
- `:toggle-option` for toggling config options at runtime (#4085)
- `dap_restart` for restarting a debug session in DAP (#5651)
- `:lsp-stop` to stop the language server of the current buffer (#5964)
- `:reset-diff-change` for resetting a diff hunk to its original text (#4974)

Usability improvements and fixes:

- Remove empty detail section in completion menu when LSP doesn't send details (#4902)
- Pass client information on LSP initialization (#4904)
- Fix behavior of `auto-completion` flag for completion-on-trigger (#5042)
- Allow specifying environment variables for language servers in language config (#4004)

> - VCS gutter: Properly handle detached git worktrees (#5097)

Reviewer 2: This is actually not related to the gutter. The VCS gutter handled this case fine because we use gitoxide to load the repo.which does it's own repo.discovery. This is only related to detecting the root path (for the file picker for for example)

Author: Whoops, good catch!

```suggestion
- Allow detached git worktrees to be recognized as root paths (#5097)
```

- Reload language config with `:config-reload` (#5239, #5381, #5431)
- Improve indent queries for python when the tree is errored (#5332)
- Picker: Open files without closing the picker with `A-ret` (#4435)
- Allow theming cursors by primary/secondary and by mode (#5130)
- Allow configuration of the minimum width for the line-numbers gutter (#4724, #5696)
- Use filename completer for `:run-shell-command` command (#5729)
- Surround with line-endings with `ms<ret>` (#4571)
- Hide duplicate symlinks in file pickers (#5658)
- Tabulate buffer picker contents (#5777)
- Add an option to disable LSP (#4425)
- Short-circuit tree-sitter and word object motions (#5851)
- Add exit code to failed command message (#5898)
- Make `m` textobject look for pairs enclosing selections (#3344)
- Negotiate LSP position encoding (#5894)
- Display deprecated LSP completions with strikethrough (#5932)
- Add JSONRPC request ID to failed LSP/DAP request log messages (#6010, #6018)
- Ignore case when filtering LSP completions (#6008)
- Show current language when no arguments are passed to `:set-language` (#5895)
- Refactor and rewrite all book documentation (#5534)

> - Check LSP renaming support before prompting for rename text (#6257)

Author: Yeah this one was really fuzzy for me. I can see it as a bug fix though so I'll move it over 👍

- Separate diagnostic picker message and code (#6095)
- Add a config option to bypass undercurl detection (#6253)
- Only complete appropriate arguments for typed commands (#5966)
- Discard outdated LSP diagnostics (3c9d5d0)
- Discard outdated LSP workspace edits (b6a4927)
- Run shell commands asynchronously (#6373)
- Show diagnostic codes in LSP diagnostic messages (#6378)

Fixes:

- Fix behavior of `auto-completion` flag for completion-on-trigger (#5042)
- Reset editor mode when changing buffers (#5072)
- Respect scrolloff settings in mouse movements (#5255)
- Avoid trailing `s` when only one file is opened (#5189)
- Fix erroneous indent between closers of auto-pairs (#5330)
- Expand `~` when parsing file paths in `:open` (#5329)
- Fix theme inheritance for default themes (#5218)
- Fix `extend_line` with a count when the current line(s) are selected (#5288)
- Prompt: Fix autocompletion for paths containing periods (#5175)
- Skip serializing JSONRPC params if params is null (#5471)
- Fix interaction with the `xclip` clipboard provider (#5426)
- Fix undo/redo execution from the command palette (#5294)

> - Fix highlighting of non-bar cursors (#5575)

Reviewer 2: This is actually a typo in the PR title it should be non-bkock cursors not non-bar cursors

- Fix panic when nooping in `join_selections` and `join_selections_space` (#5423)
- Fix selecting a changed file in global search (#5639)
- Fix initial syntax highlight layer sort order (#5196)
- Fix UTF-8 length handling for shellwords (#5738)
- Remove C-j and C-k bindings from the completion menu (#5070)
- Always commit to history when pasting (#5790)
- Properly handle LSP position encoding (#5711)
- Fix infinite loop in `copy_selection_on_prev_line` (#5888)
- Fix completion popup positioning (#5842)
- Fix a panic when uncommenting a line with only a comment token (#5933)
- Fix panic in `goto_window_center` at EOF (#5987)
- Ignore invalid file URIs sent by a language server (#6000)
- Decode LSP URIs for the workspace diagnostics picker (#6016)
- Fix incorrect usages of `tab_width` with `indent_width` (#5918)
- DAP: Send Disconnect if the Terminated event is received (#5532)
- DAP: Validate key and index exist when requesting variables (#5628)
- Fix indent guide rendering (#6136)
- Fix division by zero panic (#6155)

> - Fix scrolloff at view bottom (#6142)

Reviewer 2: I out could include this with softwrap above since this is a fix for a regression frk #5420 and not an existing bug

- Fix lacking space panic (#6109)
- Send error replies for malformed and unhandled LSP requests (#6058)
- Fix table column calculations for dynamic pickers (#5920)
- Skip adding jumplist entries for `:<n>` line number previews (#5751)
- Fix completion race conditions (#6173)
- Fix `shrink_selection` with multiple cursors (#6093)
- Fix indentation calculation for lines with mixed tabs/spaces (#6278)
- No-op `client/registerCapability` LSP requests (#6258)
- Send the STOP signal to all processes in the process group (#3546)

> - Fix workspace edit client capabilities declaration (7bf168d)

Reviewer 2: Thanks for going trough the effort of splitting changelog messages for my slightly kitchen sinkish PRs. It made sense to bundle these changes from a review perspective but probably makes generating the changelog a bit more annoying
